- [Woman] Now, let's take a look at the basic J-S-P elements
that we need to know in order to work with the J-S-P page.
J-S-P elements are basically to support Java
or any other scripting code on the J-S-P page.
Now, whenever you write code inside a J-S-P element,
all that Java code goes into
the translated servlet file of J-S-P.
What does this mean?
Let's say this is your J-S-P file, Login dot J-S-P.
Whatever code that you embed
as a part of the J-S-P elements on this page,
once you do that the entire code is going to get translated
into a Login Servlet Java file.
This Login J-S-P of course will have both H-T-M-L
and Java code but once it gets translated
it'll be converted into a Login Servlet dot Java.
It's servlet class, so it's definitely going to be similar
to the way we have written servlet classes so far.
But this translation process is something that is
completely owned up by the container software.
As developers, we wouldn't have to do anything for this.
Once this is going to get translated,
it's also going to get compiled because class files
is what the server needs to execute any Java code.
So, the Java file gets compiled and gets converted
into a dot class file.
Since this is like a servlet,
it'll have all the life cycle methods,
similar to iron it, service and destroy.
So no let's take a look at what elements we have.
The first among them a Scriptlet and Expression.
A Scriptlet element looks like this:
it starts off with an angle bracket, a percentage sign,
and then the symbols in the reverse order indicate
the closing of the Scriptlet on your J-S-P page.
So, what does the Scriptlet do?
It helps you to write Java statements on the J-S-P page.
When I say Java statements, it could be an "If" condition,
or you could run a full loop,
or any amount of statements which comprise your logic.
Now, when you talk about the code inside a Scriptlet,
all the statements written inside the Scriptlet
will go into the underscore J-S-P service method
when this J-S-P gets translated
to the corresponding servlet class.
Of course now this underscore J-S-P service method
is something that is very subjective
to the J-S-P life cycle.
We're going to talk about that
in the later part of this course.
The next element is Expression.
Expression looks like this: it's an angled bracket,
a percentage sign, and there's an equal to sign,
which will indicate that it's an expression element.
For closing this element, you need to give
the percentage and the angled bracket in the reverse order.
What does this do?
This helps us to evaluate expressions
and print the output of them on the J-S-P page.
So, what happens when the expression element is written out?
On your page, whenever you write an expression element,
the expression value is going to go
as an argument to an A-P-I.
That A-P-I is out dot printin.
Out dot printin essentially is responsible
for printing a value on the J-S-P page.
So, the expression that you've written out here
is going to go as an argument to that call
and the entire statement is going to be written out
inside the underscore J-S-P service method.
So essentially, all the code that you write in Scriptlet
or Expression ultimately goes
into the underscore J-S-P service method
of the translated J-S-P's servlet file.
Let's look at the third one,
which is the Declaration element.
Now this is a little different
because this one helps to declare variables and methods
in the pages scripting language.
And when all the code that you write
within a declaration element
goes as separate methods in the translated servlet file.
Let's understand this bit.
First of all, declaration looks like this:
angle bracket, a percentage sign,
and this exclamation mark is going to indicate
that it is a declaration statement.
To close it, again, those symbols in the reverse order.
Whenever your J-S-P gets translated
we know that there are life cycle methods
corresponding to the J-S-P's life cycle.
Other than that, if you would really like to add
new variables and new methods in that translated file,
then you will need to use the declaration element.
So, whatever code you write here
will be the declaration of instance variables,
or declaration of instance methods,
and they'll go out as separate entries
into the translated servlet file.
In the next video we'll catch a demo
for all these three basic elements.